docs: PCP-3141 (#3378)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/configure-proxy.md

description:
  "Learn how to add and manage proxy configurations for a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed into an existing
  Kubernetes cluster."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 14
tags: ["pcg", "proxy"]
---

You can add and manage proxy configurations for a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed into an existing Kubernetes
cluster. By default, a PCG deployed onto an existing Kubernetes cluster does not have a proxy configuration. If your
infrastructure environment requires a proxy configuration, use the instructions in this guide to add and manage proxy
configurations for a PCG deployed in a Kubernetes cluster and to ensure workload clusters deployed through Palette
inherit the proxy configuration from the PCG cluster.

:::info

Your workload clusters deployed through Palette will inherit proxy configuration from the PCG cluster. The PCG is not
used as a network proxy for deployed workload clusters. The PCG also does not provide internet connectivity for the
workload clusters. Individual workload clusters must have their proxy configurations to access the internet.

:::

Use the following steps to add and manage proxy configurations for a PCG.

## Prerequisites

> - A PCG is deployed into an active Kubernetes cluster, which is active and healthy. Refer to
>   [Deploy a PCG to an Existing Kubernetes Cluster](../deploy-pcg-k8s.md) for additional guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A PCG is deployed into an active and healthy Kubernetes cluster. Refer to
  [Deploy a PCG to an Existing Kubernetes Cluster](../deploy-pcg-k8s.md) for additional guidance.
```

  :::warning

>   If you deployed a [PCG through the Palette CLI](../pcg.md#supported-environments), refer to the respective platform
>   install guide for instructions on how to configure proxy settings during the installation process through the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you deployed a [PCG through the Palette CLI](../pcg.md#supported-environments), refer to the respective platform
  installation guide for instructions on how to configure proxy settings during the installation process through the CLI.
```

  :::

- The kubeconfig file for the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. The Kubconfig file is used to authenticate
  with the Kubernetes cluster and deploy the Reach service.

- Admin access to the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. The Reach Helm Chart will create a namespace,
  service accounts, and roles in the cluster.

> - The extract utilities `zip` and `tar` are installed on the machine you are using to deploy the Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The extract utilities `zip` and `tar` are installed in the system you are using to deploy the Helm chart.
```

Reviewer: I see "machine" as jargon and prefer to replace it with "system" 👁️

> - Tenant administrator access.

Reviewer: In Palette?

Author: Good callout :)

> - Tenant administrator access.

Author: ```suggestion
- Palette tenant administrator access.
```

- Proxy configuration details, such as the proxy URL, port, and authentication credentials.

- The deployed PCG must have network connectivity to the proxy server.

- The Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed must have the proxy configuration. This includes any Certificate

>   Authority (CA) certificates are required to authenticate the proxy server. This step varies depending on the platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Authority (CA) certificates that are required to authenticate with the proxy server. This step varies depending on the platform
```

  - [Amazon EKS](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/eks-http-proxy-containerd-automation)
  - [Azure AKS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/http-proxy)
  - [vSphere](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-vcenter-configuration/GUID-7576FBBE-8B67-4D3F-B859-C9688E9442D7.html)

    :::warning

    This feature has only been tested on AWS, Azure, and VMware vSphere. If you are using a different cloud provider,
    contact our support team for additional guidance.

    :::

- Download the Reach Helm Chart provided by our support team. The Reach Helm Chart is used to deploy the Reach service
  into the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. The Reach service is used to manage proxy configurations for
  the PCG. Contact our support team to obtain the Reach Helm Chart.

- `cert-manager` is not already deployed in the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. If `cert-manager` is
  already deployed, make sure you edit the deployment to use the
  `- --feature-gates=AdditionalCertificateOutputFormats=true` flag. Otherwise, the Reach service cannot manage the proxy

>   configurations.

Reviewer: In my view, this doesn't fit the structure of a prerequisite. It's a conditional statement, and so I would rather add this as an admonition in the guide and rephrase it to say smth like "If `cert-manager` is already installed, use the following flat..."

Author: Updated to use admonition.

## Enable Proxy

1. Open a terminal session and navigate to the folder where you downloaded the Reach Helm Chart zip file.

> 2. Unzip the downloaded artifact you received from the support team.

Reviewer: Are you referring to the Reach helm zip? I find the word "artifact" to be confusing here, since we're talking about a specific file in the previous step and call out an ambiguous artifact in the next 🤔

> 2. Unzip the downloaded artifact you received from the support team.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Unzip the zip file you received from the support team.
```

2. Unzip the downloaded artifact you received from the support team.

   ```shell

>    unzip release-*.zip -d palette

Author: This one has no longform 😢

> 3. Navigate to the release folder inside the unzipped folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to the release folder.
```

Reviewer: I don't think we need to specify "the unzipped folder" if this step follows directly from the previous one 🤔

   ```shell
   cd palette/charts/release-*/
   ```

4. Deploy `cert-manager` to the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. Use the following command to deploy the
   `cert-manager` Helm Chart.

   ```shell
   helm upgrade --values extras/cert-manager/values.yaml \
   cert-manager extras/cert-manager/cert-manager-*.tgz --install
   ```

5. Next, navigate to the reach-system folder and extract the Reach Helm Chart.

   ```shell
   cd extras/reach-system/ && tar -xvzf reach-system-*.tgz
   ```

> 6. Use a text editor and open the **values.yaml** file that is inside the **reach-system** directory. Fill out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open the **reach-system/values.yaml** file in a text editor. Fill out the
```

   following YAML fields with the proxy configuration details:

   - `reachSystem.enabled`: Set this field to `true` to enable the Reach service.
   - `reachSystem.proxySettings.http_proxy`: The HTTP proxy URL, including the port number.
   - `reachSystem.proxySettings.https_proxy`: The HTTPS proxy URL, including the port number.
   - `reachSystem.proxySettings.no_proxy`: A comma-separated list of URLs that should bypass the proxy.
   - `reachSystem.proxySettings.ca_crt_path`: The path to the CA certificate file used to authenticate the proxy server.

>      Make sure the CA is in PEM format. If you do not have a CA certificate, leave this field empty.

Reviewer: I think this should be a table, to stay consistent with the other instances where we instruct users to fill out YAMLs 🤔

>      Make sure the CA is in PEM format. If you do not have a CA certificate, leave this field empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Make sure the CA certificate is in the PEM format. If you do not have a CA certificate, leave this field empty.
```

8. Deploy the Reach service into the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed using the Reach Helm Chart. Use the
   following command to deploy the Reach service.

   ```shell
   helm upgrade --values reach-system/values.yaml reach-system reach-system-*.tgz --install
   ```

   ```shell hideClipboard
   WARNING: Kubernetes configuration file is group-readable. This is insecure. Location: /Users/ubuntu/.kube/config
   WARNING: Kubernetes configuration file is world-readable. This is insecure. Location: /Users/ubuntu/.kube/config
   Release "reach-system" does not exist. Installing it now.
   NAME: reach-system
   LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Jul 15 15:17:58 2024
   NAMESPACE: default
   STATUS: deployed
   REVISION: 1
   TEST SUITE: None
   ```

Once the Reach service is deployed, the PCG will use the proxy configuration in the Reach Helm Chart. If the cloud
account is configured to use the PCG, the proxy configuration will be inherited by the workload clusters deployed
through Palette.

## Validate

Use the following steps to validate that the Reach service is deployed and that the proxy configuration is enabled for
the PCG.

1. Open a terminal session.

> 2. Issue the following command against the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. Verify the pods are active and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Issue the following command against the Kubernetes cluster where the PCG is deployed. Verify that the pods are active and
```

   healthy.

   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --namespace reach-system
   ```

>    The output should display the Reach service pods in a healthy state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The output should display the Reach service pods in the **Running** status.
```

Reviewer: I feel like calling out the status relates to the example output more closely 👀

   ```shell hideClipboard
   NAME                                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   reach-controller-manager-995c74db5-frb5j            2/2     Running   0          2m
   ```

> 3. After you configure your cloud account to use the PCG. You can verify that deployed clusters inherit the proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After configuring your cloud account to use the PCG, you can verify that the deployed workload clusters inherit the proxy
```
